At first glance it almost seems impossible to
communicate between private and public blockchains,
due to the vast difference with permission and permissionless blockchain protocols.
To help understand how this communication works,
we'll look at an example where we need to store
public blockchain data into our private blockchain.
Let's imagine that our private blockchain needs to log Bitcoin transaction activities.
Our logger service would monitor new blocks added to the public blockchain.
The transactions within the box would be logged into our private chain
utilizing transaction hash as a link between public and private blockchains.
To store private blockchain data into our public blockchain,
we would need to reference the options available to us
by referring to the platform documentation.
In this case we will use Bitcoin core.
Previously we discussed the usage of operation codes.
One operation code that allows us enough storage to store a hash value is OP return.
Typical hashing algorithms generate hash values less than 40 bytes.
For example, SHA256 Hash is 256 bits long.
To reduce its size under 40 bytes,
we can encode the data to binary with eight bits per byte.
Using binary we would achieve 32 bytes for storage of the hash.
OP return allows us the option to store
a hash value that references our private blockchain dataset.
As you might have noticed,
the hash allows us to utilize its uniqueness as
a unique ID to reference and connect our data between blockchains.
There's two quick examples of methods to link public blockchain to private blockchains,
and ways you might consider doing it.
In the end both examples depend on a transaction to occur.
Connecting data between blockchains is also known as cross chain functionality.
Cross chain functionality allows a series of protocols to
work in harmony to deliver decentralized applications.
We are entering an age where new projects are focusing on ways to develop
cross-chain protocols that tackle the task of interacting between chains.
A project example is Polkadot.
Polkadot is configuring itself as a intermediary between blockchains.
Polkadot uses a multi-chain approach with a blockchain called Relay
which coordinates consensus and transaction delivery between blockchains.
Next Polkadot utilizes a second blockchain called
Parachain which gathers and processes transactions.
Finally, both solutions together create a bridge that links to
blockchains with their own consensus such as Bitcoin and Ethereum.
So, that wraps up this discussion on public and private blockchain interactions.
In this video, we discussed private,
public blockchains and ways to communicate between blockchains utilizing hashes.
We also provided a project example to allow intermediating between
blockchains as a dedicated service to promote cross-chain functionality.
Cross-chain functionality is an important concept to understand and very similar
to the way that we relate data with traditional databases which require a unique ID.
After all, a transaction has is also a means to establish a unique ID.